# How does StellarGuard work?

StellarGuard uses the Stellar's built in multi-signature technology to require a transaction to be signed both by you and by StellarGuard before it is considered valid.

To activate StellarGuard, you first need to add your StellarGuard signer public key as an additional signer on your account. You also have the option to add a backup signer. The application makes it easy to build this transaction so you can submit it to Stellar. After adding StellarGuard as an additional signer you must click activate to finalize the link to your StellarGuard account. After this is done your account is protected by StellarGuard.

After you have a verified your email address, when you submit a transaction to StellarGuard an email authorization code will be sent to you. This code will be required to authorize the transaction and submit it to the Stellar network.

You may also choose to add enhanced security by enabling two-factor authentication via an authenticator application. When you add two-factor authentication to your account, a rotating passcode that is generated by a mobile app will required to sign in or authorize transactions.

# How much does it cost?

StellarGuard is currently 100% free.

In the future, if a paid plan is introduced you will ALWAYS have the option to remove the StellarGuard signers from your Stellar account, even you have not yet paid.

# If I am using StellarGuard and a hacker steals my private key, do I lose my XLM?

No! StellarGuard was designed with this scenario. Because your account is protected with multisig, a hacker will not be able to create valid transactions without the other half of the signature, which is protected by StellarGuard.

If StellarGuard was used during the BlackWallet hack (https://cointelegraph.com/news/blackwallet-hack-400k-in-stellar-stolen-hosting-provider-possibly-at-fault), your XLM would have been completely safe.

# What would happen if StellarGuard was hacked? Do I lose my XLM?

No! Because StellarGuard does not ask you for your own secret key, a hacker who is able to infiltrate StellarGuard still cannot create valid transactions.

# What does adding a backup signer do when setting up multisig?

If you feel more comfortable not completely relying on StellarGuard, you have the option to add a "Backup Signer" when enabling multisig. A backup signer is an additional public key that you know the secret key to (does not have to be a funded account) which is added with the same weight as your source key and your StellarGuard key. This means that you can create valid transactions with any 2 of the 3 keys (this is known as 2/3 multisig).

If you do choose to add a backup signer, you should make sure you keep it in a safe place and do not use it for day-to-day transactions, and only use it in an emergency.

# Does StellarGuard work with my existing wallet?

StellarGuard requires you to use signed transaction XDRs (https://www.stellar.org/developers/horizon/reference/xdr.html) in order to submit a transaction. Your wallet must allow you to copy the signed XDR before it is submitted to the Stellar network.

Wallets that support this are:

* Stellar.org Transaction Builder (https://www.stellar.org/laboratory/#txbuilder?network=public)

# Why do I need to copy and paste transaction XDRs to StellarGuard instead of just submitting to Stellar network?

Unfortunately Stellar does not have a notion of "half-signed" multi-signature transactions that can be submitted to the Stellar network -- those are just rejected with an authorization error and not stored anywhere. This means that in order to use StellarGuard you must submit your half-signed transaction to StellarGuard so it can sign it with its key and submit the fully-signed, valid transaction to the Stellar network.

# I'm a wallet developer, how do I submit my users' transactions to StellarGuard?

There are two steps:

1.  Check if a Stellar account is protected by StellarGuard. This can be done by looking at the account.signers property of a Stellar account and checking if there is a signer "GCVHEKSRASJBD6O2Z532LWH4N2ZLCBVDLLTLKSYCSMBLOYTNMEEGUARD". If there is, this account is protected by StellarGuard and transactions must be submitted directly to it.

2.  Make a POST call to https://stellarguard.me/api/transactions with the a JSON object in the post body of: { "xdr" : "<your signed transaction xdr>" }. No authentication is required to submit transactions.

That's it! You now support StellarGuard.
